Welcome. When you train
n-gram on a limited corpus,
the probabilities of some
words may be skewed.
In this video, I
will show you how to
remedy that with a
method called smoothing.
First, you'll see an example
of how n-gram is missing from
the corpus affect the estimation
of n-gram probability.
Next, I'll go over some
popular smoothing techniques.
In the last section,
I'll touch on
other methods such as
backoff and interpolation.
Now that you've
resolved the issue
of completely unknown words,
it's time to address another
case of missing information.
For example, how would you
manage the probability
of an n-gram made up of words
occurring in the corpus,
but where the n-gram
itself is not present?
Remember you had the corpus of
three sentences earlier
made up of n-gram like,
eat chocolate. John drinks.
Notice that both of
the words John and
eats are present in the corpus,
but the bigram, John
eats is missing.
The count of the bigram,
John eats would be zero and
the probability of the bigram
would be zero as well.
Everything that did not occur in
the corpus would be
considered impossible.
An estimation of the
probability from
count wouldn't work in this case.
Smoothing is a technique
that is going to help you
deal with the situation
in n-gram models.
You might remember smoothing from
the previous week where it was
used in the transition matrix and
probabilities for
parts of speech.
Here, you'll be using
this method for
n-gram probabilities.
What does smoothing mean?
Let's focus for now
on add-one smoothing,
which is also called
Laplacian smoothing.
Add-one smoothing
mathematically changes
the formula for the n-gram
probability of the word n,
based off its history.
Here, you can see the
bigram probability of
the word w_n given
the previous words,
w_n minus 1, but its
used in the same way
to general n-gram.
Add-one smoothing just says,
let's add one both to
the numerator and to each
bigram in the denominator sum.
This change can be
interpreted as add-one
occurrence to each bigram.
So bigrams that are missing in
the corpus will now have
a nonzero probability.
In the denominator,
you are adding
one for each possible bigram,
starting with the
word w_n minus 1.
This corresponds to adding
one to each cell in the row
indexed by the word w_n minus
1 in the account matrix.
Then repeat this for
as many times as there are
words in the vocabulary.
You can take the one
out of the sum and add
the size of the vocabulary
to the denominator.
This will only work
on a corpus where
the real counts are large
enough to outweigh
the plus one though.
Otherwise, the probabilities of
missing words would be too high,
but add-one smoothing
helps quiet a lot
because now there are no
bigrams with zero probability.
If you have a larger corpus,
you can instead add-k.
This technique called add-k
smoothing makes the
probabilities even smoother.
The formula is similar
to add-one smoothing.
Simply add k to
the numerator in each possible
n-gram in the denominator,
where it sums up to k by
the size of the vocabulary.
So k add smoothing
can be applied to
higher order n-gram
probabilities as well,
like trigrams, four
grams, and beyond.
There are even more
advanced smoothing methods
like the Kneser-Ney
or Good-Turing.
If you'd like to do some
further investigation,
you can find some links in
the literature listed at
the end of this week.
Another approach to dealing with
n-gram that do not occur in
the corpus is to use information
about N minus 1 grams,
N minus 2 grams, and so on.
With the backoff, if n-gram
information is missing,
you use N minus 1 gram.
If that's also missing,
you would use N
minus 2 gram and so
on until you find
nonzero probability.
Using the lower level n-gram,
ie N minus 1 gram,
N minus 2 gram down to a unigram,
it distorts the
probability distribution.
Especially for smaller corporal,
some probability needs
to be discounted from
higher level n-gram to use
it for lower-level n-gram.
This Katz backoff method
uses this counting.
In very large web-scale corpuses,
a method called stupid
backoff has been effective.
With stupid backoff,
no probability
discounting is applied.
If the higher order n-gram
probability is missing,
the lower-order n-gram
probability is used,
just multiplied by a constant.
A constant of about
0.4 was experimentally
shown to work well.
You can learn more about
both these backoff methods
in the literature included
at the end of the module.
Let's use backoff on an example.
If you look at this corpus,
the probability of the trigram,
John drinks chocolate,
can't be directly
estimated from the corpus.
So the probability of the
bigram, drinks chocolate,
multiplied by a constant
in your scenario,
0.4 would be used instead.
An alternative approach
to back off is to use
the linear interpolation
of all orders of n-gram.
That means that you
would always combine
the weighted probability
of the n-gram,
N minus 1 gram down to unigrams.
For example, when calculating
the probability for the trigram,
John drinks chocolate,
you could take
70 percent of the estimated
probability for trigram.
So John drinks chocolates
plus 20 percent
of the estimated
probability for bigram,
drinks chocolate,
and 10 percent of
the estimated unigram probability
of the word, chocolate.
More generally, for trigrams,
you would combine the
weighted probabilities
of trigram, bigram and unigram.
You weigh all these probabilities
with constants like Lambda 1,
Lambda 2, and Lambda 3.
These need to add up to one.
The Lambdas are learned from
the validation parts
of the corpus.
You can get them by maximizing
the probability of sentences
from the validation set.
Use a fixed language model
trained from the
training parts of
the corpus to calculate
n-gram probabilities and
optimize the Lambdas.
The interpolation
can be applied to
general n-gram by
using more Lambdas.
Now you're an expert in
n-gram language models.
You know how to create them,
how to handle auto
vocabulary words,
and how to improve the
model with smoothing.
You will see that they
work really well in
the coding exercise
where you will write
your first program
that generates text.